The Miss South Africa Play Your Part Ambassador Award celebrates a proud and patriotic South African woman that display a commitment towards active citizenship. This exemplary woman continuously invests her time and resources into initiatives that empower women on platforms that are aligned to the objectives of our National Development Plan. About Play Your Part Play Your Part is a nationwide programme created to inspire, empower and celebrate active citizenship in South Africa. It aims to uplift the spirit of our nation by inspiring all citizens to contribute to positive change, become involved and start doing – thus contributing towards a nation of people who care deeply for one another and the environment in which they live. Play Your Part is driven the Brand South Africa, and received international recognition when it was shortlisted as a finalist in the “Best Citizen Engagement” category of the 2015 City Nation Place Awards. Award Criteria Eligible candidates who have already been on boarded as a Brand South Africa Play Your Part Ambassadors must demonstrate how they play their part in pro-actively promoting positive social change in areas relating to Education, Innovation, Youth Development, Skills development, Women Empowerment, Entrepreneurship, Social Cohesion, Sports Art and culture, Health, or Poverty Alleviation and job creation. The intervention may be a time-bound project, ongoing initiative, or even an innovative business practice. All eligible candidates must be an active female Play Your Part ambassador. This is limited to female Play Your Part ambassadors because Miss SA recognises the innate potential in young South African women, as it provides them with tools and the platform to augment and shape this in-built talent into a leader who embraces her self-worth and commands her powerful voice, inspiring others and catalysing real social impact. Information Required:  Terms and Conditions The promoter is Brand South Africa. Address: 103 Central Street, Houghton, Gauteng, South Africa, 2041