“Education is the most powerful weapon which you can use to change the world.” – Nelson Mandela Brand South Africa applauds the Class of 2019 for successfully excelling in their matric examinations. The class of 2019 registered an overall pass percentage of 81.3%, which is an improvement of 3.1% to the performance of the November 2018 cohort and is the highest pass percentage recorded in the last 25 years. “The Free State had the highest number of matric pupils who passed their 2019 National Senior Certificate (NSC) examinations, but it was Gauteng which obtained the highest percentage of pupils who qualified for entry to study for a degree”, said Basic Education Minister Angie Motshekga. As the leading province with the highest pass rate in the country with a 88,4%, the Free State Education MEC, Dr Tate Makgoe, thanked everyone who worked tirelessly to ensure that this achievement is attainable. The provincial results and celebrations are taking place across the country as a means acknowledge these young people and encourage the class of 2020 to do to take up the challenge to improve their skill sets and keep increasing matric results. The overall results;
1. Free State had the highest pass rate at 88.4%
2. Gauteng with 87.2%,
3. North West with 86.8%
4. Western Cape with 82.3%
5. KwaZulu-Natal obtained 81.3%
6. Mpumalanga with 80.3%
7. Northern Cape with 76.5%
8. Eastern Cape with 76.5%,
9. Limpopo with 73.2%. The National Senior Certificate Examination saw 788 717 candidates register to write, comprising full-time and part-time pupils. A total of 30 2019 top achievers in the various quintile across the country with the top matric learner overall for the DBE class of 2019 being Madelein Dippenaar from Paarl Gymnasium High School. Brand South Africa sends well wishes to all the matriculants as they further their education through various opportunities and urges them to play their part in positively contributing towards building a positive and competitive South Africa. Notes to the Editor
About Brand South Africa
Brand South Africa is the official marketing agency of South Africa, with a mandate to build the country’s brand reputation, in order to improve its global competitiveness. Its aim is also to build pride and patriotism among South Africans, in order to contribute to social cohesion and nation brand ambassadorship. About Play Your Part
Play Your Part is a nationwide programme created to inspire, empower and celebrate active citizenship in South Africa. It aims to lift the spirit of our nation by inspiring all South Africans to contribute to positive change, become involved and start doing. A nation of people who care deeply for one another and the environment in which they live is good for everyone. Play Your Part is aimed at all South Africans – from corporates and individuals, NGOs and government, churches and schools, from the young to the not-so-young. It aims to encourage South Africans to use some of their time, money, skills or goods to contribute to a better future for all.