CAPE TOWN, Friday 21 February 2020 – Brand South Africa, the official marketing agency of the country, together with Play Your Part Ambassadors, Goliath and Goliath, returned to Cape Town today to empower local learners to become active citizens to make a difference in the lives of those around them. Through the Play Your Part programme, Brand South Africa has managed to uplift youth in various societies which has yielded high returns in the quest for socio-economic development in our country. Since 2018, comedians and entrepreneurs, Donovan, Jason and Nicholas Goliath, have been running masterclasses for high school learners, on how to contribute to a brighter future for their communities, their country and build a positive narrative for the Nation Brand. The masterclass, called, “Play Your Part, turn your ideas into currency”, is part of the Brand South Africa, “Play Your Part” programme, which seeks to inspire, empower and celebrate active citizenship. Today Jason and Donovan Goliath were joined by Play Your Part ambassador, Bulelwa Basse at Sophumelela High School, in Mitchell’s Plain together with learners from Pakama and Zisukhanya High Schools. “We are here to encourage young minds to be active in their respective areas of interest and to contribute in any way they can for their communities and contribute to the efforts that can make a better country” said Brand South Africa’s Activations Manager, Rabia Metedad. “Africa is reservoir of wealth and you are the leaders of tomorrow” added Play Your Part Ambassador, Bulelani Basse. Notes to the Editor About Brand South Africa Brand South Africa is the official marketing agency of South Africa, with a mandate to build the country's brand reputation, in order to improve its global competitiveness. Its  aim is also to build pride and patriotism among South Africans, in order to contribute to social cohesion and nation brand ambassadorship. For more information on Brand South Africa, log on to www.brandsouthafrica.com or like facebook.com/BrandSouthAfrica and follow @BrandSouthAfrica on Instagram and Brand_SA on twitter for regular updates. About Play Your Part Play Your Part is a nationwide programme created to inspire, empower and celebrate active citizenship in South Africa. It aims to lift the spirit of our nation by inspiring all South Africans to contribute to positive change, become involved and start doing. A nation of people who care deeply for one another and the environment in which they live is good for everyone. Play Your Part is aimed at all South Africans – from corporates and individuals, NGOs and government, churches and schools, from the young to the not-so-young. It aims to encourage South Africans to use some of their time, money, skills or goods to contribute to a better future for all. For more information on Play Your Part, log on to www.playyourpart.co.za or like facebook.com/PlayYourPart and follow @PlayYourPartSA on twitter for regular updates. For enquiries, interview requests and access to high resolution images, please contact: Phindi Maduna Mobile: +27 64 890 7414 Email: phindilem@brandsouthafrica.co.za Thato Metseeme Tel: +27 11 327 6871 Email: thato@ebonyivory.co.za