It is back to business for some as the nationwide lockdown gradually moves down a level with strict restrictions still in place. As the lifeline of the economy, businesses have rallied their troops to ensure the supply and demand of products and services are delivered to their customers. In making sure that SMME’s are not left short-changed during the lockdown, the Department of Small Business Development established a Debt Relief Fund to assist small businesses on existing debts. SMMEs are encouraged to register on the SMME South Africa portal which went live in March 2020. While the government has given a helping hand, citizens can actively play their part to guarantee that our economy keeps running despite the pandemic having the country under siege. Successfully moving towards an economic recovery post COVID-19, becomes a responsibility for all who live in the Republic. This means supporting local businesses now more than ever before. Buying local means that you are patriotic, you guard the importance of investing in the country, economic growth and you contribute to job retention and creation. Supporting local may not look the same ever again. While the government has begun the phased re-opening of sectors in our economy, our support to local vendors, entrepreneurs may need to take on a different approach as business models change. During this Africa month, how about you buy something that reminds you of the beautiful diverse cultures, food and music that lies within our continent. “It is proven the world over that thriving economies are built on the back of SMMEs. These businesses are crucial in creating jobs”, said Proudly South African CEO, Eustace Mashimbye, at the Buy Local Summit. Here are truthful reasons why buying local is lekker, according to Tan, a Cape Town-based company that produces affordable, locally produced leather bags. Tan is proudly South African when it comes to material and manufacturing, view their range of lekker local leather products on their website tangoods.com Share some of your favourite local brands with us on Twitter: @Brand_SA Additional source: https://tangoods.com/7-real-reasons-why-local-is-lekker/