Every year thousands of men, women and children in South Africa fall into the trap of traffickers. According to A21 –  a nonprofit organisation fueled by radical hope that human beings everywhere will be rescued from bondage and completely restored, human trafficking is an internationally unlawful act that is impacting the lives of victims globally. These traffickers are known to deceive women, men and children, especially young girls, and force them into oppressive situations. The most common form of human trafficking is sexual exploitation. In October 2020, Thandi* was driving from work in one of the busiest cities in South Africa. As she stopped at one of the traffic lights, someone smashed her car window and attempted to drag her out.  A vehicle approached from behind with more men attempting to drag her into the car trunk. She managed to fight them off and drove to an accident scene she had passed to seek help from authorities who assisted her by driving her to a place of safety. Thandi* is one of a few survivors of human trafficking who was able to escape before her life turned into something far worse. The following points are an effort to assist citizens to be safe and vigilant and to increase awareness. Job seekers Traffickers have been known to target victims through advertising for jobs.  When applying for an advertised job: Travel Travelling is usually coupled with positive emotions, especially when one is going on vacation, but this may be a risky situation. Here are pointers when visiting foreign countries:  Online safety Oftentimes, traffickers find their victims on the internet. Everyone is free to create their profile, the personal information of the users and the credibility of the information published is hardly guaranteed. Here’s some good advice for safe online activity: Useful contact to report human trafficking to: South African Police Services (SAPS) 10111, Department of Social Development (DSD) Hotline on 0800 220 250 or National Human Trafficking Resource Line on 0800 222 777